The authors introduce **TAS500: semantic segmentation dataset for autonomous driving in unstructured environments**, a novel semantic segmentation dataset for autonomous driving in unstructured environments. Research in autonomous driving for unstructured environments suffers from a lack of semantically labeled datasets compared to its urban counterpart. Urban and unstructured outdoor environments are challenging due to the varying lighting and weather conditions during a day and across seasons. TAS500 offers fine-grained vegetation and terrain classes to learn drivable surfaces and natural obstacles in outdoor scenes effectively. We evaluate the performance of modern semantic segmentation models with an additional focus on their efficiency. The authors experiments demonstrate the advantages of fine-grained semantic classes to improve the overall prediction accuracy, especially along the class boundaries. 


## Dataset creation

Semantic scene understanding is a key capability for autonomous robot navigation in real-world environments, but current research in autonomous driving focuses mainly on urban, suburban, and highway scenes. These scenes are considered as structured environments. In terms of their scene statistics, structured environments often provide more explicit object boundaries and contain objects with strong structural regularities. The authors are interested in robot navigation in unstructured environments, such as paths through forests and along fields. Here the occurrence of many semi-transparent classes such as
tree foliage and the subtle color difference between vegetation types pose a challenge during image processing. The authors institute Autonomous Systems Technology has developed an autonomous vehicle named MuCAR-3 (Munich Cognitive Autonomous Robot Car) with full drive-by-wire capabilities. MuCAR-3 is equipped with multiple sensors, such as LiDAR, vision systems, and inertial sensors.